## Task
**Observability**

Please explain this term in the context of micro-services. What do we want to observe? What kind of challenges do you see in a distributed environment? How can we solve them?

## Introduction

Observability simply means the system's ability to measure its internal states by examining its outputs. In a general sense, Observability is an extension of Monitoring where Monitoring will tell us if there are any issues with the system and Observability will help us to prevent any issues before they tend to happen. 

It is a combination of Logs, Metrics, and Traces produced by the system. Whenever we face any issues with the system the
 - Metrics can help us to find the issues in real- time and also provide the historical data of the system.
 - Logs generated by the system help us to understand why this issue has occurred. 
 - And Traces can help us pinpoint the problem in a complicated system with lots of details.

### Observability in Microservices

When we deconstruct the Monolith in Microservices we distribute the system in many distributed components which in turn introduce many potential points of failure. 
With such complexity it becomes challenging to have complete visibility of the infrastructure and with conventional monitoring it becomes difficult to find the root cause of the issue.

Improving observability helps developers find problems in different parts of their system. It also shows them what's going on in the live environment, so they can deliver software faster, avoid downtime, and make things work better.

## Challenges in Microservices

Microservices provide many benefits for the development of applications. They make the applications easily scalable, resilient and easy to maintain. However, this distributed infrastructure makes it challenging to keep track of the microservices that are hosted.

Here are a few of the major challenges for observability in microservices:

**Identifying the root cause of issue**: With hundreds of distributed components, tracing a request and data in a microservices application with many micro-apps is a major challenge. Every request and data routes through many interconnected components making the troubleshooting and debugging harder.
    
    Solution: Devs have to use services like datadog, splunk, prometheus etc to track the request throughout the project lifecycle. This also helps in identifying the bottlenecks in the delivery pipelines 

**Volume of generated data**: As we tend to record every event of all the components, we have to store these generated data, and with time these data sets grow like a snowball which becomes very costly to maintain. And it also makes it challenging to get meaningful information from this data set. Also, the tools available in the market for observability are expensive to maintain which poses additional costs.

    Solution: Carefully igone the unwanted events like successful logins, and expected metrics and set up an archiving cycle of the data.

**Picking the right tool**: There are plenty of tools that are currently available in the market to cater to the observability of microservices, but every tool behaves differently and it has a learning curve associated which makes it challenging for developers to adapt the tools. Also, there is no perfect tool for all challenges so you have to decide carefully while picking the tool that can serve best your problems.

    Solution: Start small with open-source tools like prometheus and understand the exact requirements and then gradually step up the ladder to get the perfect solution.

**False alerts**: With overwhelmingly large data, it also generates false predictions which can create panic or more importantly if there are frequent false notifications devs can develop a habit of ignoring the issues which can force downtime too often. 

    Solutions: You have to read the trends of false alerts and then create a methodology to remove the unwanted false alerts with alerts that can detect potential threats in the future.